>> Richard Feldman: So viewform works
on something called form quite a bit.
So it's a safe bet that we're
gonna need that as a dependency.
So let's see where
viewform is being called.
It's currently being
called passing a model.
Let's change that so
that instead of taking the entire model,
it's just taking the form.
And so we'll delete this and
replace it with,
we just accept the form as an argument.
And let's see what that does for us.
>> Richard Feldman: Okay, no problem.
On to the settings.
Sorry that is a problem.
Just kidding.
So the next line we immediately
say Session.cred model.session.
So we're still referencing
model inside this function.
But we're only using it
to get the session cred.
So there's two possibilities
that we could do here.
One is we could say I'm gonna accept so
Session.cred.function returns
a maybe session which we're
immediately pattern matching on.
Two possibilities,
one is we can take a Maybe Session.
>> Richard Feldman: And say okay,
we're going to say maybeSession
right here and continue as normal.
That's one way we could do it.
But another possibility is we could say,
you know what,
all we do is we render nothing
if the Session is nothing.
Should that really be here in the form,
or could we actually narrow our type even
further and say,
this needs to have been handled already?
It's not this function's job to deal with
the possibility that there's no session.
Just don't even call me if
you don't have a session.
I don't wanna here it.
Yeah, we can do that.
So we can move that to up here and
say, case,
sorry, cred., no session.cred.
Model.session.
And now we're handling that case out here.
And we're only calling viewform
passing the credentials.
If we already have some cred to give it.
Another possibility is that we can see
that a form is being used down here.
If we want, we can just inline this
whole thing and just say, you know what?
Right here, right here in the middle
of this thing, we're gonna say,
if we have some cred,
we're gonna render a form here, and
otherwise we're not going to
bother doing that at all.
Any of those possibilities
are perfectly reasonable.
What I like about these one is that
there is sort of the list in direction
everything is sort of right
there where it is happening.
We can see right here if we have
credentials we are right at
the form otherwise we will not we can
see what is happening at the dome
without jumping somewhere else.
And then the form itself, sorry the view
form function itself takes the least,
the most narrow types
that it possibly can.
It says all I want is the cred.
I don't need the rest of the session.
I don't need to know about the maybe,
that's already been resolved for me.
So when I'm scanning through
I can see sort of a,
I can learn the most about
this function at a glance.
>> Speaker 2: Richard?
>> Richard Feldman: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: You're,
aren't you already inside a block
where you know you have a value?
>> Richard Feldman: Entirely possible,
yeah good point [LAUGH].
Yeah, so actually that compiler error
is telling me I'm shadowing this,
which is a great point because at
this point, we already have it.
So we can do significantly better
than that by doing it like this.
That's much better,
I don't know why I didn't think of that.
[LAUGH] Questions on that?
>> Speaker 3: When you were refactoring
the arguments you put the cred on the left
side of the form is there-
>> Richard Feldman: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: Is that required?
Or why did you choose to put it
on the left versus the right?
>> Richard Feldman: That's
a great question.
So certainly it would
work fine either way.
Generally speaking,
when I think about argument order,
I'm thinking in terms of how will
partial application be effected.
Typically speaking, if I'm going to
partially apply a function, usually what
I'm going to do is I'm going to personally
apply it with some sort of piece of
information that's sort of unlikely
to change among multiple invocations.
So if I'm calling viewForm.
Like, viewForm is kind of a silly
example because I'm probably only ever
going to call it one way.
But let's say we're calling some
other function that needed cred,
like, I don't know,
maybe I was displaying.
What would I be displaying?
Not favorites or follow buttons because
that would just also just be sort of like
one per, I don't know.
Anyway, let's say I have
three different buttons,
all of which are slightly different and
they all require credentials.
I'm much more likely to say, view button
with credentials equals view button cred,
and partially apply that,
than I am the rest of the arguments
because they're more likely to change.
Credentials very unlikely to change, so
whenever I have arguments that I think
no matter how many different
times I call this.
This is the least likely to ever change,
I tend to wanna put those up front so
they're more partial application friendly.
So that settings taken care of that's
the first of our three to do's.
Let's take a look at home next.
So once again we have a function that's
sort of taking too much view tabs
takes the model when it
really doesn't need to be.
And the reason I know that it doesn't
need to is that immediately what we do is
we say model.feedTab of.
And once again, we're in a situation
where we have one argument, and
then we also have,
we're looking at cred in the session, and
that's basically all we're
using the model for.
We certainly don't be need
to be using it for all that.
So we can certainly take feedTab as
an argument instead of model.feedtab.
So this is specifying which of the three
tabs on the home screen are you
potentially viewing, which is to say
either YourFeed, GlobalFeed, or TagFeed.
And so that's one of our arguments, but
then the other one that we still
need is the model.session,
which we're currently only using for cred,
we're using it in two different places.
Now, unlike the previous case,
here we actually do do something slightly
different if we don't have cred.
So it's not gonna work out to say,
this function requires cred and
we will rely on other things to
take care of it ahead of time.
It's actually quite important that we
do get maybe cred here because we need
to do something different
in the event that we get.
In the event that we have access to cred
or not, which is to say we've rendered
different tabs depending on whether
you are logged out or logged in.
If you're logged in we
will render your feed, but
if you are logged out we
will not render your feed.
So in both of these nothing branches you
don't see your feed appearing in there.
Okay, so
we will take maybe cred has an argument.
>> Richard Feldman: And that's
a significantly narrower argument than
all of this.
>> Richard Feldman: I think I'm
gonna do the same thing over here.
>> Richard Feldman: Okay, and finally we
need to actually pass that into viewTabs.
I'll do that with saying viewTabs and
passing that as the first argument and
then model.feedTab as the other.
I think that's correct.
Let's see.
>> Richard Feldman: Great, success.
Questions?
>> Richard Feldman: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Could you have
just passed the Session in and
left that logic in there, or
are you just kind of cleaning it up?
>> Richard Feldman: I'm doing it this
way because this is even narrower.
So the Session holds onto the cred,
but also other stuff.
And I don't want a tab access
to that if it doesn't need it.
So this is sort of the narrowest possible
type I can give it to where it can still
do its job.
The narrower the better.
That's a general default.
Let's move on to the last one
which is the profile page.
So this one's taking the model.
It also needs to take
some other arguments.
But let's see if we can get that
model down to as little as possible.
So here, we're calling currentUsername and
the model.
We're also once again,
getting cred off the model.
And it looks like the one other place
that we pass it is in feed.init,
and feed.init actually does
want to take model.session.
So here, we have a case where
we can't get away with cred,
because this needs more than that.
We also can't even get away
with maybeCred, because really
what we need is we just actually need
to pass a real session to feed.init.
So if we look here in feed, the init
function just takes a plain old Session,
no maybe involved, and so
there's really no way of avoiding, yeah,
we just gotta actually have
a real session in here.
Having said that, we can pull our cred
off of it separately, so that's fine.
So session and
the one other thing that we're using
the model is that we're casting it to get,
sorry, to current user name to
extract the current user name from it.
But we can just say, what just go
ahead and pass that username in.
>> Richard Feldman: Sorry, username.
Okay, so now over here in the feed,
we're gonna pass model.session
as the first argument and
model dot, no, it was currentUsernmae.
That's not spelled correctly at all.
There we go.
Also, nope, nope, model.
Okay, and something is wrong.
Okay, wow,
that's a lot of stuff that's wrong.
[INAUDIBLE] fetchFeed session username,
that's a session,
that looks like the username,
correct feed tab, correct page.
Are we calling this in multiple places?
We sure are.
Okay, that explains it.
All right, so
let's fix it in the other places too.
So this one's also going
to need a model.session,
and also currentUsername model and
>> Richard Feldman: Let's do that again,
let's try that again.
There we go, okay.